The Project Gutenberg eBook of Star Book No. 236: Aunt Lydia's Designs, by
Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Star Book No. 236: Aunt Lydia's Designs

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: September 17, 2021 [eBook #66334]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 236: AUNT LYDIA'S
DESIGNS ***




                         AUNT LYDIA’S_® DESIGNS


                                                                     35¢

                           STAR BOOK NO. 236

    [Illustration: american thread
    HIGH RIDGE PARK. STAMFORD. CONN. 06905]

                                                       PRINTED IN U.S.A.




                          GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS


                       Knitting Abbreviations

  Knit                                           k
  Purl                                           p
  Stitch(es)                                     st(s)
  Yarn Over                                      yo
  Decrease                                       dec
  Increase                                       inc
  Together                                       tog
  Round                                          rnd
  Pass Slip St Over St                           p.s.s.o
  Double Pointed Needle                          dpn
  Beginning                                      beg
  Remaining                                      rem
  Pattern                                        pat

                        Crochet Abbreviations

  Chain                                          ch
  Stitch                                         st
  Slip Stitch                                    sl st
  Single Crochet                                 s c
  Half Double Crochet                            h d c
  Double Crochet                                 d c
  Treble Crochet                                 tr c
  Double Treble Crochet                          d tr c
  Treble Treble Crochet                          tr tr c
  Increase                                       inc
  Decrease                                       dec
  Remaining                                      rem
  Pattern                                        pat
  Asterisk...*. This indicates that the directions immediately
  following are to be repeated the given number of times in
  addition to the ones already given. Thus “repeat from * 3 times”
  means 4 patterns in all.

                        Macrame Abbreviations

  Reverse Double Half Hitch                      RDHH
  Over Hand Knot                                 OHK
  Vertical Half Hitch                            VHH
  Diagonal Double Half Hitch                     DDHH
  Horizontal Double Half Hitch or Horizontal Bar HDHH or HB

    [Illustration: FIG. 1]

    [Illustration: FIG. 2]

    [Illustration: FIG. 3]

    [Illustration: FIG. 4]

    [Illustration: FIG. 5]




                      MACRAME General Instructions


EQUIPMENT: T-pins. Scissors. Tape measure or ruler. Knotting board
(brown paper marked off in one inch squares for gauge. Place over
knotting board of Celotex, cork, or padded cardboard). Rubber bands for
bobbins (wind lengths overhand, secure with rubber band and release as
needed). 1-yarn needle.

KNOTTING: 1. Keep the foundation yarn secure and in place by using
T-pins in the overhand knot at either end. 2. Keep leader taut and
straight on an angle or parallel to the foundation yarn. 3. Tie knots
tightly to cover leader. 4. Secure with pins to keep accurate
measurement. (Use the one inch squares as a gauge.)

Learn all knots on sample piece before beginning, making sure to acquire
the right tension. This will enable you to identify the knots.

Five knots are used in this booklet. They are basically the same
differing mainly in direction. 1. Reversed Double Half Hitch (R D H H)
as shown in figure #1, used for mounting lengths onto foundation yarn.
Fold length in half, tuck looped end over foundation yarn and pull
toward you, tuck loose ends into loop and tighten. 2. Overhand Knot (O H
K) as shown in figure #2. Hold length in left hand, with right hand
bring it up and over towards the left through loop formed, tighten. 3.
Vertical Half Hitch (V H H) as shown in figure #3. Hold one length in
left hand, with right hand bring next length around and between the two
lengths (counts as one knot). Bring left length around right and between
the two lengths. Continue for the number of knots indicated. 4. Diagonal
Double Half Hitch (D D H H) as shown in figure #4. Working from left to
right, the leader (length on which the knots are tied) is held in the
right hand. Each length is knotted onto it in the same manner as the
first knot of the V H H two times. The leader is held taut and on a
downward angle. Working from right to left the leader is held in the
left hand. 5. Horizontal Bar or Horizontal Double Half Hitch (H B or H D
H H) as shown in figure #5. Holding the leader taut and parallel to the
foundation yarn work as D D H H.




Asterisk...*. This indicates that the directions immediately following
are to be repeated the given number of times in addition to the ones
already given. Thus “repeat from * 3 times” means 4 patterns in all.




                                  Belt


Material Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  “Aunt Lydia’s” Heavy Rug Yarn.
    2—70 Yd. Skeins color A.
  1 Crochet Hook Size H or any size hook which will result in stitch
          gauge below.
  Gauge: 1 pattern = 1 inch.
  Suggested Color Scheme: A—Lilac.
  Measurements: Waist: Fits All Sizes. Width: Approx. 4¼ inches.

With A and Size H hook, ch 15.

ROW 1: Dc in 4th st from hook, dc in next 2 sts, working over side of
last 3 sts, insert hook in space between ch at beg and first dc, work a
sc pulling loops to width of the 3 dc, * skip next st of ch, dc in next
3 sts, insert hook in space between these 3 sts and sts of previous
group, work a sc, repeat from * once, dc in next st, turn.

ROW 2: Ch 3, skip 1 st, dc in next 3 dc, taking care not to work over
the loop of sc of row below, insert hook in space between ch at beg and
first dc, work a sc over the 3 dc just made, * skip next st, dc in next
3 dc, work a sc over side of these 3 sts, repeat from * once, dc in next
st. Repeat Row 2 for waist measurement minus 2 inches.


FINISHING:

Working across long edge; sc, sl st, sc, sl st over side of last dc; sc,
sl st over side of each row to next corner, sc, sl st in corner, * sc,
sl st in same space, repeat from * once, * sc in next st, st in next st,
repeat from last * 4 times, sc in next st. Continue around in same
manner working next corners same as 2nd corner, end to correspond,
fasten off.


TASSEL: (Make 2)

Wind yarn 30 times around a 5 inch cardboard. Tie one end; cut other
end. Tie again 1 inch below first tying.


TIE:

Work a ch 36 inches long or length desired, sl st in each st of ch,
fasten off. Lace through 4 front spaces of belt and attach tassels.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: _Instruction on page 8_]




                    HAIRPIN LACE AND KNITTED PONCHO


                              Size: Small

Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  “Aunt Lydia’s” Heavy Rug Yarn.
    7—70 Yd. Skeins Color A.
    2—70 Yd. Skeins Color B.
  1—Pr. Jumper Knitting Needles No. 8 and 1 Crochet Hook Size H or any
          size needles and hooks which will result in stitch gauge
          below.
  1—3 inch Hairpin Staple.
  Gauge: On Knitting Needles:
    7 sts = 2 inches; 7 rows = 1 inch.
  Suggested Color Scheme:
    A—Peacock; B—Bongo.
  Directions are given for Small size.
  Measurements:
    Shoulder-arm length 19 inches.


HAIRPIN LACE:

With crochet hook make a loop, drop loop. Remove bar from staple, place
dropped loop on left prong with yarn to front of staple, replace bar.
Working with bar at bottom and curve at top, pass yarn over right prong
to back of staple keeping the beg of loop at center. Insert hook through
loop and pull yarn through, yarn over and pull through loop, * drop loop
from hook, turn staple toward you to the left, pass yarn over right
prong to the back, pick up dropped loop, pull loop tight and keep in
center, insert hook under top part of loop on left prong, pull yarn
through (2 loops on hook), yarn over and pull through both loops, repeat
from * for desired length.


FIRST SECTION:

With B, and 3 inch Hairpin Staple, work a strip of hairpin lace having
123 loops on each side of staple, fasten off. Remove bar. Using Size 8
knitting needles working along 1 edge of hairpin lace and keeping 1
twist in each loop across, attach A in first loop, pull yarn through
same loop, * insert needle in next loop, pull yarn through, repeat from
* 58 times (60 sts), place a marker, insert needle through next 3 loops,
pull yarn through all 3 loops (center st), place a marker, * insert
needle in next loop, pull yarn through, repeat from * across rem 59
loops (121 sts on needle).

ROWS 1-3: (Garter st), K each row, slipping markers.

ROW 4: K 2 tog, K across to within 2 sts of first marker, K 2 tog, slip
marker, K 1, sl marker, K 2 tog, K to within last 2 sts, K 2 tog.

ROWS 5-84: Repeat the last 4 rows 20 times.—37 sts remain.

ROW 85: K 1, * YO, K 2 tog, repeat from * across row (beading).

ROW 86: K across row counting the YO as a st.

ROW 87: Bind off. With A and size 8 needles, working on upper opposite
side of hairpin lace, keeping 1 twist in each loop, pull up a loop in
each loop of hairpin lace.—123 sts.

ROW 1: K—123 sts.

ROW 2: Inc in first st, K 59, inc in next st, K 1, inc in next st, K 59,
inc in last st.—127 sts. (To Inc: K into the front and back of same st).

ROWS 3-5: K.

ROW 6: Bind off.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


SECOND SECTION:

Work same as first section.


FINISHING:

With matching colors weave center seams tog matching rows.


COLLAR:

With B and 3 inch Hairpin Staple, work a strip of hairpin lace having 74
loops on each side of staple. Fasten off. With Size H hook, attach B in
first loop, keeping 1 twist in each loop, work 1 sc in each loop along
one edge. Fasten off. Having right side of poncho and collar facing, sew
sc edge of collar to poncho, matching edges at center front seam.


CORD:

Take 2 strands of A, each 2½ yds. long, twist tightly, fold in half and
let twist itself. Knot each end.


TASSELS: (Make 2)

Wind B, 25 times around a 4½ inch cardboard. Tie one end, cut other end,
then tie again about 1 inch below first tying. Trim tassels. Lace cord
through beading and attach a tassel to each end.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                       LAZY DAISY CLUSTER PILLOW


    [Illustration: LAZY DAISY CLUSTER PILLOW]

Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  “Aunt Lydia’s” Heavy Rug Yarn.
    5—70 Yd. skeins color A.
    1—70 Yd. skein each of colors B, C, and D.
  1 Crochet Hook Size I or any size hook which will result in stitch
          gauge below.
  Gauge:
      3 rows = 1 inch;
      5 sts = 2 inches.
  Kapok or shredded foam rubber for filling.
  Suggested Color Scheme:
    A—Red; B—White; C—Yellow and D—Fern Green.
  Size: Approx. 15 x 15 inches


FIRST SIDE:

With A and Size I hook, ch 38. ROW 1: Sc in 2nd st from hook and in each
rem st of ch. Ch 1 to turn all rows.—37 sts. ROWS 2-45: Sc in each sc.
Fasten off.—15 inches.


SECOND SIDE:

Work same as first side.


EMBROIDERY:

With B embroider daisies in lazy daisy st. With C work French knot in
center (twice around needle). With D embroider leaves in lazy daisy st;
calyx and stems in satin st. With C embroider large cluster in French
knots. Cluster should be 4½ inches long, 3½ inches at widest point
tapering to ½ inch at top as illustrated. Embroider small cluster in
same manner 3½ inches long, 2½ inches at widest point tapering to ¾ inch
at top.


FINISHING:

Place sections tog wrong sides facing. Sew 3 edges tog, matching rows.
Fill with kapok or shredded foam rubber. Sew rem side.

    [Illustration: MULTI-COLOR CHOKER & BELT
    _Instruction on page 14_]




                       MULTI-COLOR CHOKER & BELT


    [Illustration: MULTI-COLOR CHOKER & BELT]

Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  “Aunt Lydia’s” Heavy Rug Yarn.
    1—70 Yd. Skein each of A, B, C, D, and E.
  1—1½ inch plastic ring for center of belt.
  1—1 inch plastic ring for center of choker.
  1—Yarn needle.
  Measurements For Choker:
    1¾ inches wide, 11 inches long.
  Measurements For Belt:
    3 inches wide, 24 inches long.
  Color Scheme: A—Watermelon. B—Lilac. C—Orange. D—Spring Green and
          E—Turquoise Icing.


CHOKER

    [Illustration: Choker]

Cut four 1½ yd. lengths each of A, E, D, C. Cut four 2½ yd. lengths of
B. Anchor to 1 inch ring, using the RDHH, in this manner: * (one half of
the ring) 1 B, 1 A, 1 C, 1 D, 2 E, 1 D, 1 C, 1 A, and 1 B. Repeat from *
on other half of ring. (NOTE: All yarns are worked two strands to a
length). One half of choker is worked, then the other. * Starting with
E, cross them over one another and work in opposite directions in DDHH
having last knot 1 inch below ring. Repeat with all colors leaving
lengths used as leaders untied until B is in the center. With B tie 3
VHH. Pick up E and work each to center in DDHH. Repeat with all colors,
leaving lengths used as leaders untied until B is on the outside. With E
tie 3 VHH *. Using outside B on left, work to right forming a HB. Do not
tie B onto B. Using outside B on the right work to the left forming a
HB. Repeat between *’s once, having the last knot of the DDHH 1 inch
below last HB. Using outside B on the left, work to the right forming a
HB. With this length and the right outside length of B tie 14 VHH. This
will be sewn into place forming a loop. With a yarn needle or crochet
hook weave in the ends on the back side for at least ½ inch. Trim.
BRAID: Cut 6 one yard lengths of B. Tie all lengths together with an OHK
two inches from beginning. Braid, using 2 strands of yarn as one, for
twenty inches. Tie an OHK. Cut lengths 2 inches below OHK. Insert braid
through loops for fastening.


BELT

Cut eight 6 yd lengths of B, four 5½ yd lengths of A, eight 5 yd lengths
of D, four 5 yd lengths of C and six 4½ yd lengths of E. Anchor to 1½
inch ring in the following sequence using RDHH; * 2 B, 1 A, 1 C, 2 D, 3
E, 2 D, 1 C, 1 A, and 2 B *. Repeat between *’s for other half of ring.
(NOTE: All yarns are worked 2 strands to a length except E which uses 3
strands as one). * Take E, cross strands over each other and carry to
outside in DDHH so that the last knot is approximately 1 inch from the
ring. (FIRST ROW SHAPING ONLY) Repeat with all colors, leaving lengths
used as leaders untied, until B remains in the center. Pick up E and
work to center in DDHH. Repeat with all colors, leaving lengths used as
leaders untied until B is on the outside. With E tie 6 VHH, with D tie 5
VHH. Using outside B on the left, work to the right forming a HB. Using
outside B on the right, work to the left forming a HB *. Repeat between
*’s twice having the last knot of DDHH 1 inch below last HB. There will
be 3 sections worked in the same manner.


BRAIDS:

(NOTE: Divide E so that there are 2 strands to a length). Starting at
left and using B and A, braid a 24 inch length, tie an OHK and cut
approximately 5 inches from knot. Use D with C, the 3 E lengths, D with
C, and B with A.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: MACRAME DRAWSTRING BAG & BELT
    _Instruction on page 18_]




                              MACRAME BELT


    [Illustration: MACRAME BELT]

Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  “Aunt Lydia’s” Heavy Rug Yarn.
    1—70 Yd. Skein each of A, B, C, and D.
  1 Yarn Needle
  Measurement: 24 inches.
  Suggested Color Scheme: A—Black. B—Burnt Orange. C—Antique. D—White.
  Note: All lengths are worked with 2 strands unless otherwise noted.

Cut two 6½ yd lengths and twelve 4 yd lengths of A, eight 4 yd lengths
each of B, C and D. The belt will be worked in two halves, each half
measuring 12 inches, then sewn together. Take one 6½ yd length of A,
fold in half, find center and tie an OHK 2 inches from either side of
center. Secure 4 inch center to board and anchor lengths onto it using
RDHH in the following sequence: 4 A (including the longer length of 4
inch section), 2 B, 2 C, 4 D, 2 C, 2 B, 4 A. Cross center 4 D lengths
over one another having 2 lengths to the right and 2 to the left. Work
each length in DDHH leaving lengths used as leaders untied so that the
last knot is 1 inch below foundation (first row shaping only). Repeat
with each color working half in each direction until A lengths remain in
the center. Starting on the left, * with D tie 8 VHH, with C tie 7, with
B tie 3, with A tie 2, with A tie 3 *. Repeat between *’s in reverse.
Using outside D length on right, work HDHH to left across entire piece
and using same length as leader work back to right. With outside D on
the right work to center in DDHH so that last knot is 1 inch below HB.
Repeat with outside D on the left. With these 2 leaders in the center
tie 3 VHH. Work these leaders in opposite directions forming an X with
last knot 1 inch below center of X. With left outside D work a HB across
the entire piece. Using same length as leader work back to the left.
Starting on the left * with D tie 8 VHH, with C tie 7, with B tie 3,
with A tie 3, with A tie 2 *. Repeat between *’s in reverse. Cross
center A lengths over each other having four to the left and four to the
right. Carry each length to the outside in DDHH being sure not to tie
any lengths used as leaders, so that last knot is 2 inches below last HB
worked. Carry all lengths in the same manner until D remains in the
center. Starting at left * with A tie 11 VHH, with A tie 7, with B tie
5, with C tie 4 *. Divide the 4 lengths of D into 2 lengths having 4
strands each, tie 3 VHH. Repeat between *’s in reverse. With left
outside A work a HB across entire piece to the right. Using same length
as leader work back to the left. Starting 2 inches below last bar
worked, with right outside A work a HB across entire piece to the left.
Using same length as leader work back to the right. With outside 2 A
lengths on either side tie 8 VHH. Divide the center D lengths into 4
lengths having 2 strands each. Tie 8 VHH with first 2 lengths of D and 8
VHH with next 2 lengths of D. These will be used to form the lacing
loops. Sew ends of loops into position. With yarn needle or crochet hook
weave in the ends on the back side for at least ½ inch. Trim.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]


BRAID LACING:

Cut two 2½ yd lengths each of A, C, and B. Tie ends together 2 inches
from beginning with an OHK. Braid using double strands of color as one.
Tie an OHK 2 inches from the end. Lace through loops.




                         MACRAME DRAWSTRING BAG


                    Size: 12″ high, 10″ in diameter

    [Illustration: MACRAME DRAWSTRING BAG]

Materials Required:

  AMERICAN THREAD
  “Aunt Lydia’s” Heavy Rug Yarn
    6—70 Yd. Skeins A.
    1—70 Yd. Skein each of B, C, D, and E.
  1 Yd. lining fabric
  1 Yarn Needle
  1 Aluminum Crochet Hook size H or any size hook which will result in
          stitch gauge below.
  Gauge: (For base of bag only):
    3 rows = 1 inch, 3 stitches = 1 inch
  Measurements:
    12 inches high x 10 inches diameter
  Color Scheme: A—Cream. B—Burnt Orange. C—Black. D—White. E—Antique.

Cut 2—13 yd. lengths and 88—3 yd. lengths of A, 8—3 yd. lengths each of
B and E, 6—3 yd. lengths of D and 16—3 yd. lengths of C. Cut a 1 yd.
length of A for foundation yarn. Tie an OHK 2 inches from either end of
foundation yarn leaving 32 inches for anchoring lengths. Anchor lengths
to foundation using RDHH, having 4 RDHH to an inch, in the following
sequence: 1—13 yd. and 5—3 yd. lengths of A, 2 C, 1 B, 1 E, 1 D, 1 E, 1
B, 2 C, 39 A, 4 C, 2 B, 2 E, 4 D, 2 E, 2 B, 4 C, 39 A, 2 C, 1 B, 1 E, 1
D, 1 E, 1 B, 2 C, 5—3 yd. lengths and 1—13 yd. length of A.


Note:

There will be four horizontal sections worked in the same pattern. All
lengths will be worked with 2 strands of yarn unless otherwise noted.


PATTERN:

** Starting with the first A on the left as a leader, work in HDHH to
the right across the entire piece including the last 13 yd. length. With
last length knotted as leader work in HDHH to the left across the entire
piece. Starting at the left, the first 6 lengths of A will be worked to
form an angle <. With the 6th A in from the left as leader work to the
left in DDHH having the last knot 1 inch below the last HB worked. With
the same length as leader work to the right in DDHH so that the last
knot is 2 inches below last HB worked. NOTE: Work all angles to
correspond with this in size. The next color group will be worked to
form a diamond <>. Divide D having 1 strand of yarn to a length. These
will remain this way throughout work. Work left D strand to the left in
DDHH and back to the center forming an angle <. Work right D strand to
the right in DDHH and back to the center forming an angle >. * The next
6 lengths of A will be worked to form an angle >. With the first A as a
leader work in same manner as the first group of A reversing direction.
The next 12 lengths of A will be worked to form an X. With first length
as leader work in DDHH to center, knotting each of the next 5 lengths.
With last of 12 lengths as leader work to the left, to the center,
knotting each of the next 5 lengths. With the 2 leaders knot 3 VHH and
carry leaders in opposite directions forming the X. Divide the next 3
lengths into 2 lengths of 3 strands each. These will remain this way
throughout work. Tie 7 VHH. Work the next 12 lengths to form an X. Work
the next 6 lengths in the same manner as the first group of 6 forming an
angle < *. The center color group (next 20 lengths) will be worked to
form an X. With first C length as leader work in DDHH to the center.
With first C on the right as leader work in DDHH to the center. With the
center 2 C lengths tie 3 VHH and carry leaders in opposite directions in
DDHH forming the X. Repeat between *’s once. Work last color group in
same manner as first. Work last A group in same manner as first
reversing direction to form an angle > **. Repeat between **’s 3 times.
* With the left outside length as leader, work a HB across entire piece
to the right. With last length knotted as leader work a HB across entire
piece to the left. Repeat from * once. Trim lengths 6 inches below last
HB.


BASE:

With crochet hook and A ch 4, join in first st of ch to form a ring.

1st ROUND: Work 8 sc in ring, join. Do not join or turn unless otherwise
indicated.

2nd ROUND: 2 sc in each sc all around (16 sts). Place a marker for each
round.

3rd ROUND: * 2 sc in first sc, 1 sc in next sc. Repeat from * all around
(24 sts).

4th ROUND: * 1 sc in each of next 3 sc, 2 sc in next sc. Repeat from *
all around (30 sts).

5th ROUND: * 1 sc in each of the next 4 sc, 2 sc in next sc. Repeat from
* all around (36 sts).

6th ROUND: Repeat 4th Round (45 sts).

7th ROUND: 1 sc in each of the next 2 sc, 2 sc in next sc, * sc in each
of the next 4 sc, 2 sc in next sc. Repeat from * to within last 2 sts, 1
sc in each of the last 2 sc (54 sts).

8th ROUND: * 1 sc in each of the next 5 sc, 2 sc in next sc. Repeat from
* all around (63 sts).

9th ROUND: 1 sc in each of the next 2 sc, * 2 sc in next sc, sc in each
of the next 9 sc, repeat from * to within last st, 2 sc in last sc (70
sts).

10th ROUND: 1 sc in each sc all around (70 sts).

11th ROUND: * 1 sc in each of next 9 sc, 2 sc in next sc. Repeat from *
all around (77 sts).

12th ROUND: 1 sc in each sc all around (77 sts).

13th ROUND: * 1 sc in each of the next 6 sc, 2 sc in next sc. Repeat
from * all around (88 sts).

14th ROUND: 1 sc in each of the next 2 sc, 2 sc in next sc, * sc in each
of the next 4 sc, 2 sc in next sc. Repeat from * all around (106 sts).

15th ROUND: 1 sc in each sc all around, turn.

16th ROUND: Ch 1, 1 sc in each of the first 4 sc; decrease in 5th and
6th sc. (To decrease: Pull up a loop in each of 2 sts, yarn over and
work off all loops at one time). * 1 sc in each of the next 8 sc, dec in
9th and 10th sc. Repeat from * all around (95 sts). Join with slip st,
cut yarn leaving a 1½ yd. length for sewing.


FINISHING:

Cut pattern for lining using crocheted base and macrame unstitched bag.
Sew side seam of bag with an overcast stitch being careful to match
patterns. Pin base into position on the lower 2 horizontal bars. Sew
with a snug overhand stitch. With right side of bag facing, with crochet
hook, and A, work 1 sc between each RDHH all around the top having 127
sc, join in 1st sc, do not turn.

2nd ROUND: Beading: Ch 3, sc in next sc, * ch 1, skip 1 sc, sc in next
sc. Repeat from * all around, join in 2nd st of ch.

3rd ROUND: Ch 4, (counts as 1 dc and 1 ch) * skip 1 sc, dc in ch 1
space, ch 1. Repeat from * all around. Join in 3rd st of ch 4 (64 dc).

4th ROUND: Ch 4, dc in ch 1 space, ch 1, * dc in next ch 1 space, ch 1.
Repeat from * all around. Join in 3rd st of ch 4.

5th ROUND: Repeat 4th Round, cut yarn and fasten end under.


HANDLES: (Make 2)

Cut 2—1¾ yd. lengths each of E, B, and C. Tie all lengths together with
an OHK 1 inch from beginning. Using 2 strands of each color to a length,
braid to within 2 inches from end. Tie an OHK and trim ends to 1 inch.
Weave first braid of handle through beading (3rd Round). Knot ends
together with OHK. Starting at opposite side, weave 2nd braid through
same beading. Knot ends together.

    [Illustration: Wraparound cover]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Relocated material “continued on remote page” for more
  conveniently-flowing text.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAR BOOK NO. 236: AUNT LYDIA'S
DESIGNS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
